document_url: 
https://worldwide.espacenet.com/data/publicationDetails/biblio?DB=EPODOC&II=9&ND=3&adjacent=true&locale=en_EP&FT=D&date=20161005&CC=EP&NR=3075377A2&KC=A2


key_identifier: 
EP3075377A2


abstract: 
The invention provides a dry flowable composition comprising granules of a plant extract, for instance a birch leaf extract or a solidago leaf extract. The granules further comprise a carrier mixture formed from at least one sugar and/or sugar alcohol, a separating agent and optionally a surfactant. The granules exhibit improved dissolution behaviour of the plant extract and are thus suited for oral consumption in the form of drinking solutions. For this purpose, the granules may either be dissolved as such or preferably combined with further excipients selected from edible acids, pH-modifying agents, sweeteners, flavours and/or anti-foaming agents to form a dry flowable composition. The dry flowable composition may for instance be used in the treatment and/or prevention of urinary tract infections (UTIs) such as cystitis.


patent_description: 
FIELD    [0001]    The present invention relates to compositions comprising powdered plant extracts, e.g. extracts of birch leaves or solidago leaves; in particular, dry flowable compositions intended for dissolution in water in order to provide a drinking solution of the plant extract. The present invention further relates to compositions used in the treatment and/or prevention of urinary tract infections.     BACKGROUND    [0002]    In the field of bacterial urinary tract infections (UTIs), the use of plant extracts is still very common. Known plants and/or plant components exhibiting for instance a diuretic effect include bearberry leaves (or meal berry), birch leaves, solidago leaves (also called goldenrod), orthosiphon leaves, dandelion, horsetail herbs, parsley, restharrow roots, juniper berries, black currant leaves, garden lovage and asparagus. Other plant extracts are assumed to prevent or limit the attachment of UTI-inducing bacteria to the bladder mucosa, the so-called urothelium; e.g. cranberry extract.     [0003]    Since it is generally recommended to increase the amount of consumed liquids during UTIs in order to remove as many bacteria as possible via the urine, drinking solutions present an advantageous vehicle for the plant extracts. As a further benefit, drinking solutions are easily swallowable by subjects of any age. Hence, some of the plant extracts are sold as alcoholic solutions; e.g. as concentrated drops, often to be taken with a bit of sugar (often sucrose) or diluted in water to mask their taste. However, this is not an appropriate approach for e.g. infants, kids or any subject which does not want to consume alcohol, either due to alcoholism, religious concerns and/or risk of affecting co-medication.     [0004]    One approach was to provide powdered plant extracts, either milled or obtained by spray-drying or freeze-drying liquid extracts. A common issue with at least some of these powdered plant extracts, though, is that they tend to self-agglomerate and form lumps upon dispersion into water, leading to reduced dissolution rates and in some cases sediments. In some but not all cases, this problem may be overcome to some degree by vigorous stirring; yet often such stirring then causes the mixture to foam, which is unsightly and may affect dosing accuracy.     [0005]    It is thus an object of the present invention to provide compositions for oral delivery of powdered plant extracts which can be stored in dry state and easily dispersed and dissolved in water prior to consumption without the formation of foam, agglomerates and/or sediments. A further object is to provide a method for the treatment and/or prevention of urinary tract infections such as cystitis using said compositions, for instance compositions comprising birch leaf extract and/or solidago leaf extract.     [0006]    Further objects will become apparent on the basis of the following description including the examples, and the patent claims.     SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION    [0007]    In a first aspect, the invention provides a dry flowable composition comprising granules, said granules comprising (a) a powdered plant extract, (b) a carrier mixture comprising a water-soluble substance selected from a sugar and/or sugar alcohol and a separating agent at a weight ratio of 1 : 1 or higher, and optionally (c) a surfactant. The powdered plant extract may for instance be a birch leaf extract and/or a solidago leaf extract, the birch leaf extract optionally comprising at least 2 % flavonoids.     [0008]    Typically, the inventive granules in the dry flowable composition comprise from about 10 to about 70 wt.-% powdered plant extract; from about 20 to about 80 wt.-% sugar and/or sugar alcohol; from about 3 to about 20 wt.-% separating agent; and/or from about 0.01 to about 3 wt.-% surfactant. In a more specific embodiment, the granules comprise from about 30 to about 50 wt.-% powdered plant extract; from about 40 to about 60 wt.-% sugar and/or sugar alcohol; from about 5 to about 10 wt.-% separating agent; and/or from about 0.05 to about 1 wt.-% surfactant.     [0009]    The sugar and/or sugar alcohol may be selected from glucose, fructose, mannose, sucrose, maltose, lactose, maltitol, mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol, erythritol, isomalt, or mixtures thereof. The separating agent may be selected from calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate, magnesium oxide, magnesium carbonate, fumaric acid, or mixtures thereof.     [0010]    Preferably, the weight ratio of the sugar and/or sugar alcohol and the separating agent in the carrier mixture of the granules ranges from about 4 : 1 to about 11 : 1, or from about 5.5 : 1 to about 8.5 : 1.     [0011]    The granules may for instance comprise sucrose, calcium carbonate as the separating agent and polysorbate as the surfactant (e.g. polysorbate 20).     [0012]    The dry flowable compositions may further comprise mannose (preferably D-mannose), optionally at an amount of about 10 to about 70 wt.-%; and/or one or more vitamins, e.g. vitamin A and/or vitamin D3. Furthermore, the compositions may comprise one or more, preferably extragranular, excipients selected from edible acids (e.g. citric acid, tartaric acid, succinic acid, malic acid or lactic acid, or combinations thereof); pH-modifying agents such as citrates; natural and/or artificial flavours; anti-foaming agents such as medium chain triglycerides (MCTs) with 6 to 12 carbon atoms or simethicone; and/or sweeteners (e.g. aspartame, sucralose, cyclamate, neotame, neohesperidin, acesulfame potassium, saccharin, advantame, thaumatin, stevia, stevioside, and/or mixtures thereof).     [0013]    A typical composition according to the invention may comprise about 30 to 60 % mannose; about 5 to 20 % powdered birch leaf extract and/or powdered solidago leaf extract; about 10 to30 % sucrose; about 0.5 to 3 % calcium carbonate; about 5 to 25 % citric acid; about 3 to 15 % trimagnesium dicitrate; about 3 to 15 % monosodium citrate; and about 0.001 to 2 % surfactant.     [0014]    In a further aspect, the invention provides a process for the preparation of the dry flowable composition according to the invention, comprising the steps ofa) mixing the sugar and/or sugar alcohol and the separating agent,b) adding a solution comprising an alcohol selected from ethanol or isopropanol, and optionally a surfactant, to the mixture of step a to form a carrier mixture,c) adding the powdered plant extract to the carrier mixture of step b, andd) drying the product of step c, ande) adding to the product of step d mannose and/or vitamin(s) and/or at least one extragranular excipient selected from edible acids (e.g. citric acid, tartaric acid, succinic acid, malic acid or lactic acid, or combinations thereof); pH-modifying agents such as citrates; natural and/or artificial flavours; anti-foaming agents such as medium chain triglycerides (MCTs) with 6 to 12 carbon atoms or simethicone; and/or sweeteners (e.g. aspartame, sucralose, cyclamate, neotame, neohesperidin, acesulfame potassium, saccharin, advantame, thaumatin, stevia, stevioside, and/or mixtures thereof).    [0015]    In a further aspect, the invention provides a single dose unit or package comprising the dry flowable composition according to the invention. Typically, the amount of the total composition is about 2000 to 6000 mg, the amount of granules in said composition is about 800 to 1200 mg, and/or the amount of flavonoids is about 5 to 20 mg.     [0016]    In a yet further aspect, the invention provides an oral liquid composition obtained from dissolving or dispersing the dry flowable composition of the invention, or the single dose unit thereof in water or an aqueous ingestible liquid.     [0017]    In a further aspect, the invention provides the use of the dry flowable composition as well as single dose units or oral liquid composition thereof in the treatment and/or prevention of urinary tract infections, such as cystitis.     Definitions    [0018]    The following terms or expressions as used herein should normally be interpreted as outlined in this section, unless defined otherwise by the description or unless the specific context indicates or requires otherwise:All technical terms as used herein shall be understood to have the same meaning as is commonly understood by a person skilled in the relevant technical field.    [0019]    The words 'comprise', 'comprises' and 'comprising' and similar expressions are to be construed in an open and inclusive sense, as 'including, but not limited to' in this description and in the claims.     [0020]    The terms "a"or "an" as used herein means "at least one" or as "one or more" unless specified otherwise; i.e. it does not exclude pluralities. In other words, all references to singular characteristics or limitations of the present disclosure shall include the corresponding plural characteristic or limitation, and vice versa.     [0021]    All percentages, parts and ratios as used herein, are by weight of the respective total weight, unless otherwise specified. For instance "%" is to be understood as "wt.-%" unless otherwise specified.     [0022]    As used herein terms like "about", "approximately" or "ca." shall compensate for any variability allowed for in the pharmaceutical and/or nutraceutical industry and inherent in their respective products, such as differences in content due to manufacturing variations and/or time-induced product degradation.     [0023]    The expressions, 'one embodiment', 'an embodiment', 'a specific embodiment' and the like mean that a particular feature, property or characteristic, or a particular group or combination of features, properties or characteristics, as referred to in combination with the respective expression, is present in at least one of the embodiments of the invention. These expressions, occurring in various places throughout this description, do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment. Moreover, the particular features, properties or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments     [0024]    The term "sugar" refers to sweet, short-chain, soluble carbohydrates from various sources. The term includes monosaccharides (such as glucose, fructose or mannose), and disaccharides (such as sucrose, maltose, lactose, lactulose, maltulose, trehalose or palatinose).     [0025]    The term "sugar alcohol" refers to organic compounds of the general formula: HOCH2(CHOH)nCH2OH. They are typically derived from sugar and, unlike sugars, usually linear molecules. They are also known as polyhydric alcohols, polyalcohols, alditols or glycitols. Common examples of sugar alcohols include mannitol, maltitol, sorbitol, xylitol, erythritol, isomalt, lactitol or inositol.     [0026]    A "separating agent" as used herein is a solid, fine powdered substance, typically below 10 m particle size, which is practically insoluble, very slightly soluble or at most slightly soluble in water at room temperature; and which is capable of covering, or coating the surface of other solid particles, typically particles with a larger particle size than the separating agent. Any solubility provisions such as "slightly soluble" as used herein shall be understood as aqueous solubilities and ranked according to pharmacopoeial standards (e.g. European Pharmacopeia) unless specified otherwise.     [0027]    Any particle size provisions such as <20 m or <10 m shall be understood as sieve diameters; i.e. particles of a sieve diameter <20 m would normally pass through a sieve having an aperture, or opening size, of 20 m. Within a formulation comprising a plurality of particles, these particle sizes should be interpreted to characterise the preferred mass median sieve diameters of particles (so-called D50 value), unless where provided otherwise. The D90-value refers to the particle size of the sieve which 90 % of the particle would pass. It is to be understood that commonly the particle size values of D50 and/or D90 are calculated from the measured particle size distribution. The latter may be measured using laser diffraction or other dynamic imaging techniques using e.g. pulsed LED light.     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION    [0028]    In a first aspect, the invention provides a dry flowable composition comprising granules, said granules comprising (a) a powdered plant extract, (b) a carrier mixture comprising a water-soluble substance selected from a sugar and/or sugar alcohol and a separating agent at a weight ratio of 1 : 1 or higher, and optionally (c) a surfactant.     [0029]    In one specific embodiment of the invention, the powdered plant extract is a birch leaf extract and/or a solidago leaf extract. In a more specific embodiment, the powdered plant extract is a birch leaf extract comprising at least 2 % flavonoids. Earlier attempts to formulate such powdered birch leaf extracts and/or solidago leaf extracts into drinking solutions without the inventive granules suffered from noticeable, unsightly foam formation and poor dissolution with residues/sediments remaining at the bottom of the drinking vessel. The foam formation is presumed to be associated - at least in parts - with the saponin content in birch leaf extracts and solidago leaf extracts; though the 'foaming problem' is by no means limited to saponin-containing plant extracts. Similar problems are known from other powdered plant extracts such as sage (clary, salvia), ginseng, horse chestnut or gynostemma (Jiaugulan), harpagophytum, echinacea or urtica.     [0030]    This problem was successfully overcome by the granules of the invention. The inventors surprisingly found that granules based on the carrier mixture provide improved dissolution properties to powdered plant extracts, characterised by limited foam formation during stirring and complete and rapid dissolution in cold water, typically within less than 30-40 seconds after short stirring (e.g. about 10 seconds).     [0031]    The mechanism for this improved dissolution performance is not yet understood in detail. One aspect is that the combination of a powdered plant extract with a water-soluble substance selected from a sugar and/or sugar alcohol and a separating agent helps to prevent the agglomeration of the powdered plant extract by coating the surface of the water-soluble substance with it, thereby separating and/or dispersing the powdered plant extract. It is further believed that upon dissolution of the granules, the main carrier mixture component - namely the sugar and/or sugar alcohol - allows for rapid dissolution of the granules, while the separating agent ensures that the powdered plant extract particles do not 're-agglomerate' and hence also dissolve quicker as they would without the carrier mixture.     [0032]    As defined above, the separating agent is a finely powdered, poorly soluble material (at most slightly soluble), with a particle size that enables the agent to cover, or coat, surfaces of larger sized particles evenly. Due to its larger surface area per weight, the amount of separating agent needed is smaller than the amount of the water-soluble main carrier mixture component, the sugar and/or sugar alcohol; hence, the ratio of sugar and/or sugar alcohol and the separating agent is 1 : 1 or higher. In one embodiment, the weight ratio of the sugar and/or sugar alcohol and the separating agent in the carrier mixture of the granules ranges from about 4 : 1 to about 11 : 1. In another embodiment, the weight ratio is from about 5.5 : 1 to about 8.5 : 1; for instance 6 : 1, 6.5 : 1, 7 : 1, 7.5 : 1 or 8 : 1. In one of the preferred embodiments, the ratio is about 7 : 1.     [0033]    In one embodiment, the sugar and/or sugar alcohol is selected from glucose, fructose, mannose, sucrose, maltose, lactose, maltitol, mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol, erythritol, isomalt, or mixtures thereof; and/or the separating agent is selected from calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate, magnesium oxide, magnesium carbonate, fumaric acid, or mixtures thereof. Any combination is possible as long as the selected separating agent is capable of adhering to the surface of the sugar and/or sugar alcohol.     [0034]    In one embodiment, the sugar and/or sugar alcohol is sucrose. In one embodiment, the separating agent is calcium carbonate. In a specific embodiment, the sugar and/or sugar alcohol is sucrose, the separating agent is calcium carbonate, and/or the surfactant is a polysorbate. Optionally, the polysorbate is polysorbate 20 (also known commercially as Tween<>20).     [0035]    In one of the preferred embodiments, the sugar and/or sugar alcohol is sucrose, the separating agent is calcium carbonate and the surfactant is polysorbate 20. Exemplary formulations using this carrier mixture are described in the examples. In this embodiment, the sucrose is preferably used in particle sizes as commonly found in caster sugar; i.e. between about 100 and 1000 m, or between about 200 and 800 m; and the calcium carbonate in particle sizes below 20 m, or below 10 m, or with a D90-value below 10 m, such as to allow good adherence of the calcium carbonate to the sucrose crystals' surfaces.     [0036]    In one embodiment, the granules in the dry flowable composition comprise from about 10 to about 70 % powdered plant extract; from about 20 to about 80 % sugar and/or sugar alcohol; from about 3 to about 20 % separating agent; and/or from about 0.01 to about 3 % surfactant. In a specific embodiment, the granules comprise about 30 to 50 % powdered plant extract; about 40 to 60 % sugar and/or sugar alcohol; about 5 to 10 % separating agent; and/or about 0.05 to 1 % surfactant. In another specific embodiment, the granules comprise about 35 to 45 % powdered plant extract; about 45 to 55 % sugar and/or sugar alcohol; about 6 to 9 % separating agent; and/or about 0.05 to 0.2 % surfactant. In one of the preferred embodiments, the granules comprise about 42 % powdered plant extract (e.g. birch leaf extract and/or solidago leaf extract), about 50 % sugar and/or sugar alcohol (e.g. sucrose); about 7 % separating agent (e.g. calcium carbonate) and about 0.1 % surfactant (e.g. polysorbate 20).     [0037]    In one embodiment, the dry flowable composition further comprises mannose, optionally at an amount of about 10 to about 70 %. In cases where the composition is intended for use in the treatment and/or prevention of urinary tract infections (UTIs) such as cystitis, D-mannose is preferred, since it prevents or limits the attachment of UTI-inducing bacteria to the bladder mucosa, the so-called urothelium.     [0038]    In addition or alternatively, the composition further comprises a vitamin. Optionally, the vitamin is selected from vitamin A (retinol), vitamin B5 (pantothenic acid), vitamin C (ascorbic acid), vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) and vitamin E (tocopherol). These vitamins provide mucosal protection, as is preferred e.g. in the treatment and/or prevention of urinary tract infections (UTIs) such as cystitis and other infections involving mucosal tissue. In one specific embodiment, the vitamin is vitamin A, vitamin D3 or a combination thereof.     [0039]    In one embodiment, the composition further comprises one or more preferably extragranular excipients selected from edible acids, pH-modifying agents, sweeteners, natural and/or artificial flavours, and/or anti-foaming agents.     [0040]    Optionally, the edible acid is selected from citric acid, tartaric acid, succinic acid, malic acid and lactic acid or combinations thereof. Further optionally, the pH-modifying agent is selected from citrates; for instance from trimagnesium dicitrate, monosodium citrate, disodium citrate. In one embodiment, citric acid is used. In one of the preferred embodiments, citric acid is used in combination with monosodium citrate and/or trimagnesium dicitrate.     [0041]    Further optionally, the sweetener is selected from aspartame, sucralose, cyclamate, neotame, neohesperidin, acesulfame potassium, saccharin, advantame, thaumatin, stevia or stevioside, or mixtures thereof.     [0042]    Optionally, the natural and/or artificial flavours are selected from dried fruit juice or herbal extracts and/or artificial flavours such as honey-, orange-, lemon-, cherry-, tropical fruit-, grapes-, berries-, banana-, contramarum-, or peach aroma, or mixtures thereof. Artificial flavours may be nature identical.     [0043]    Further optionally, the anti-foaming agent is selected from medium chain triglycerides (MCTs) with 6 to 12 carbon atoms, such as medium chain triglycerides (MCTs) with 8 to 12 carbon atoms (e.g. Miglyol<>812), or simethicone.     [0044]    In one of the preferred embodiments, the dry flowable composition comprises from about 30 to about 60 % mannose; from about 5 to about 20 % powdered birch leaf extract and/or powdered solidago leaf extract; from about 10 to about 30 % sucrose; from about 0.5 to about 3 % calcium carbonate; from about 5 to about 25 % citric acid; from about 3 to about 15 % trimagnesium dicitrate; from about 3 to about 15 % monosodium citrate; and from about 0.001 to about 2 % surfactant.     [0045]    In this embodiment, the powdered birch leaf extract and/or the powdered solidago leaf extract, the calcium carbonate, the polysorbate and parts of the sucrose content is provided in the form of granules. Yet, further sucrose may be added extragranular as well in order to optimise the taste of the composition. Further optional excipients for this embodiment include sweeteners, flavours, vitamins and anti-foaming agents such as medium chain triglycerides (MCTs) with 6 to 12 carbon atoms (e.g. Miglyol<>812) or simethicone.     [0046]    In one embodiment, the dry flowable composition comprises about 35 to 45 % mannose; about 5 to 15 % powdered birch leaf extract and/or powdered solidago leaf extract; about 15 to 20 % sucrose; about 1 to 2 % calcium carbonate; about 10 to 15 % citric acid; about 5 to 10 % trimagnesium dicitrate; about 5 to 10 % monosodium citrate; and about 0.01 to 0.1 % surfactant.     [0047]    In a specific embodiment, the dry flowable composition comprises about 43 % mannose; about 10 % powdered birch leaf extract and/or powdered solidago leaf extract; about 17 % sucrose (in total); about 2 % calcium carbonate; about 12 % citric acid; about 8 % trimagnesium dicitrate; about 7 % monosodium citrate; and about 1 % in total of polysorbate 20, vitamin A, vitamin D3, sucralose, aspartame, and a C8-C12-MCT (e.g. Miglyol<>812). An exemplary formulation is described in the examples below.     [0048]    While the invention is particularly useful for powdered plant extracts which contain saponins and/or exhibit foaming when stirred into aqueous liquids, it should be understood that the invention is not limited to only those extracts. It is irrelevant from which type of plant the extract is derived (e.g. herbs, bushes, trees), or from which part of the plant (e.g. roots, leaves, flower, fruits) or by which extraction method and/or extraction medium.     [0049]    It should further be understood, that depending on the specific extract to be obtained, the extraction method and/or the extraction medium, some powdered plant extracts as commercially available may comprise additional substances such as excipients, i.e. substances which were not derived, or extracted from the plant as such, but which are added during the preparation process of the powdered plant extracts. For instance, the commercially available powdered solidago leaf extract as employed in Examples 1-3 further below comprises 10 % maltodextrin.     [0050]    In a further aspect the invention provides a process for the preparation of the dry flowable composition described above, the process comprising the steps ofa) mixing the sugar and/or sugar alcohol and the separating agent,b) adding a solution comprising an alcohol selected from ethanol or isopropanol, and optionally a surfactant, to the mixture of step a to form a carrier mixture,c) adding the powdered plant extract to the carrier mixture of step b, andd) drying the product of step c, ande) adding to the product of step d mannose and/or vitamin(s) and/or at least one extragranular excipient selected from edible acids, optionally selected from citric acid, tartaric acid, succinic acid, malic acid and/or lactic acid;pH-modifying agents, optionally selected from citrates;sweeteners, optionally selected from aspartame, sucralose, cyclamate, neotame, neohesperidin, acesulfame potassium, saccharin, advantame, thaumatin, stevia, stevioside, and/or mixtures thereof;natural and/or artificial flavours; and/oranti-foaming agents, optionally selected from medium chain triglycerides (MCTs) with 6 to 12 carbon atoms or simethicone.    [0051]    The process may be performed in any common granulation device suited to homogenously apply the particles of the separating agent and the powdered plant extract to the surfaces of the water-soluble main component of the carrier mixture (i.e. the sugar and/or sugar alcohol). For instance, a 'single-pot' granulation device may be used, optionally equipped with vacuum means such as the Topo-granulator.     [0052]    The sugar and/or sugar alcohol and the separating agent should not dissolve in the alcoholic solution, or at most to a negligible degree. This helps to spread small amounts of solution more easily between the two powders without the risk for agglomeration and to thereby cover, or coat, the surface of the sugar and/or sugar alcohol crystals evenly with the fine powdered separating agent. Hence, the water content in the alcoholic solution should be kept below 10 %, or preferably below 7 %. In one embodiment, the pure alcohol is used. In one of the preferred embodiments ethanol is used as the alcohol, for instance ethanol 96 % (V/V).     [0053]    Optionally, a surfactant, such as a polysorbate, may be dissolved in the alcoholic, or ethanolic, solution in order to improve the wetting of the powders.     [0054]    Once a homogenous mixture is obtained, the powdered plant extract is added and dispersed in the carrier mixture. Since most powdered plant extracts are at least partially soluble in alcoholic solutions, the extract will 'stick' to the wetted carrier mixture particles while the separating agent prevents the auto-agglomeration, or self-agglomeration, of the plant extract particles during this process. Like this, an even layer of plant extract (partially in particulate state, partially dissolved) is formed on top of the carrier mixture particles, yielding the granules of the invention.     [0055]    The thus obtained granules are subsequently dried; optionally using increased temperatures and/or vacuum. For instance, the granules may be dried at 50 C under vacuum, optionally within the 'single-pot' granulator. During the drying step, the alcohol should evaporate completely, such as to leave no alcohol (other than e.g. sugar alcohols) in the final product.     [0056]    Since the size of the sugar and/or sugar alcohol crystals typically exceeds the particle sizes of the separating agent and the powdered plant extract by at least a multitude of two, only a small size increase of the sugar and/or sugar alcohol particles is noticeable after granulation, such that the dried product is ready for further processing. Nonetheless a sieving step may be performed - if considered expedient - to remove any oversized particles after the drying and prior to processing the granules further.     [0057]    Alternatively, to the process described above, the powdered plant extract may also be added directly to the sugar and/or sugar alcohol and the separating agent in step (a); i.e. prior to the addition of the alcoholic solution. Whether sufficient homogeneity of the granulation mixture can be obtained with this approach, depends on a number of factors, such as the solubility of the extract in the alcoholic solution and/or the extent of its auto-agglomeration tendencies. It should be noted that this alternative process does not deviate from the current invention, as long as the plant extract and the separating agent can be applied evenly and homogenously to the sugar and/or sugar alcohol particles.     [0058]    The dried granules of step (c) may then be mixed with any further excipients of the composition; for instance with mannose and/or vitamins and/or excipient selected from edible acids, pH-modifying agents, sweeteners, natural and/or artificial flavours and/or anti-foaming agents. It is understood that any mixing device, mixing duration and any order of adding the further components is allowed as long as the final dry flowable composition is homogenous. The final composition is then ready for packaging.     [0059]    In a yet further aspect the invention provides a single dose unit or package comprising the dry flowable composition described above. The single dose unit may be packaged in any suitable packaging material, such as foil-lined sachets or stickpacks, or small vials or bottles made from either glass or plastic materials. In one embodiment of the single dose unit or package, the amount of the total dry flowable composition is from about 2000 to about 6000 mg, and the amount of granules in the composition is from about 800 to about 1200 mg; and/or wherein the amount of flavonoids is from about 5 to about 20 mg. In a specific embodiment, the amount of the total dry flowable composition is about 4000 to 5000 mg (e.g. about 4500 mg or about 4600 mg), and the amount of granules in the composition is about 1000 to 1100 mg (e.g. about 1050 mg); and/or wherein the amount of flavonoids is from about 8 to about 15 mg (e.g. about 10 mg or about 15 mg).     [0060]    If the single dose unit comprises mannose and/or vitamins in addition to the granules, their respective amounts should be chosen in such a way as to not exceed the recommended daily intake when taking into account the intended number of single dose units to be administered per day.     [0061]    The dry flowable composition and/or the single dose unit or package thereof are intended for dissolution in water or another aqueous ingestible liquid in order to prepare a drinking solution. Hence, the invention further provides an oral liquid composition obtained from dissolving the dry flowable composition according to the invention or the single dose unit or package thereof in water or an aqueous ingestible liquid. Such drinking solutions are on one hand advantageous in that they can be easily swallowed by subjects of any age; they may even be administered by nasal or oral feeding tubes if needed. A further advantage of drinking solutions is that they increase the fluid uptake of the subject as is particularly desirable in the treatment and/or the prevention of urinary tract infections, such as cystitis.     [0062]    Hence, in a final aspect, the invention provides the dry flowable composition as described above, or the single dose unit or package thereof, or the oral liquid composition obtained thereof for use in the treatment and/or prevention of urinary tract infections.     [0063]    In one of the preferred embodiments, a composition is used comprising both, a birch leaf extract and D-mannose; or a solidago leaf extract and D-mannose; or alternatively a combination of birch leaf and solidago leaf extract together with D-mannose. Like this a synergistic effect is obtained:D-mannose prevents or limits the attachment of UTI-inducing bacteria to the bladder mucosa, the so-called urothelium; andthe birch leaf extract and/or the solidago leaf extract provide(s) a diuretic effect which helps to 'flush out' said bacteria quickly. Furthermore, vitamins A and D3 were found to be advantageous to protect the urothelium.    Examples    Example 1 - Preparation of plant extract granules    [0064]    In a laboratory scale experiment, granules according to the invention (1) are prepared by blending sucrose and calcium carbonate and granulating them with an ethanolic solution comprising 1 % polysorbate 20 (e.g. 0.2 g Polysorbate dissolved up to 20 mL in ethanol) to improve the surface wetting of the sucrose and calcium carbonate particles. To the thus obtained carrier mixture, either powdered birch leaf extract (here with a flavonoid content of about 2.3 %; granules 1-3) or powdered solidago leaf extract (granules 4-6), or an exemplary 50:50 blend of both extracts (granules 7) is added gradually and mixed until homogeneity.     [0065]    The resulting granules are dried to constant weight at 50 C under vacuum.     [0066]    For comparison, similar granules were prepared omitting either the use of the calcium carbonate (2, 5) or the use of the sucrose (3, 6). The composition of all three granules is provided in Table 1 below.Table 1: Composition (amounts in gram) of granules 1-7 Sucrose10.512.0---10.512.0---10.5Birch leaf extract8.78.78.7---------4.35Solidago leaf extract---------8.78.78.74.35Calcium carbonate1.5---12.01.5---12.01.5Polysorbate 200.02*0.02*0.02*0.02*0.02*0.02*0.02** 0.2 g Polysorbate dissolved up to 20 mL in ethanol; 2 mL added to sucrose/CaCO3    Example 2 - Preparation of dry flowable composition    [0067]    About 1 part of the plant extract granules obtained in Example 1 are combined with about 4 parts further excipients and blended until homogeneity to form a dry flowable composition according to the invention. The components of the composition and their respective contents in wt.-% are provided in Table 2 below.     [0068]    A single dose unit of this composition comprises about 2 g D-mannose, about 10 mg flavonoids from birch leaf extract (granules 1-3), about 120 g Vitamin A and about 200 I.E. Vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol). The single unit may be packaged in a sachet or stickpack; alternatively, it may be packaged in ampoules, vials or small bottles.     [0069]    Upon use, the dry flowable composition is dissolved in water (e.g. about 200 mL) and stirred for about 10 seconds or until the composition is completely dissolved and ready for oral consumption.Table 2: Components of a dry flowable composition and their contents in wt.-% D-Mannose43.48Birch leaf extract (comprising 2.3 % flavonoids), and/or Solidago leaf extract9.46Vitamin A-palmitate 250.000 IE/g0.05Cholecalciferol 100.000 SD/S0.05Sucrose17.05Citric acid (anhydrous)11.96Trimagnesium-dicitrate (anhydrous)7.83Monosodium citrate7.39Calcium carbonate1.63Aspartame0.59Aroma0.33Sucralose0.15Polysorbate 200.02Medium chain triglycerides (C8to C12)0.02    Example 3 - Dissolution behaviour of plant extract granules    [0070]    The plant extract granules obtained in Example 1 are mixed with further ingredients in analogy to Example 2 and the resulting dry flowable compositions 1-3 were dissolved at room temperature in about 200 mL water and stirred for about 10 seconds. About 30 seconds after stirring the obtained drinking compositions are inspected visually.     [0071]    The results are provided in Table 3 below.Table 3: Results of visual inspection of dissolution behaviour of compositions 1-3  1 Composition completely dissolved; very minor foam formation 2 Composition not completely dissolved; Brown sediment of plant extract remains even after 120 s 3 No visual plant extract sediments; but lots of persisting foam Taste and pH not optimal for repeated oral consumption 4 Composition completely dissolved; very minor foam formation 5 Composition not completely dissolved; Brown sediment of plant extract remains even after 120 s 6 No visual plant extract sediments; but lots of persisting foam Taste and pH not optimal for repeated oral consumption 7 Composition completely dissolved; very minor foam formation    [0072]    As can be seen from these results, only the combination of sucrose with the separating agent calcium carbonate provides the desired dissolution performance with compositions 1, 4 and 7 dissolving completely with only very minor foam formation. Without the use of the separating agent, the plant extract particles do not dissolve properly and form a sediment instead. This shows that the inventive effect does not reside in simply dispersing plant extract particles in sucrose particles to counter-act their agglomeration tendencies. On the other hand, without the use of the water-soluble sucrose (and more calcium carbonate instead), lots of persisting foam is formed upon stirring. 


original_claims: 
                                                                                                                                                                        1. A dry flowable composition comprising granules, said granules comprisingrow(a) a powdered plant extract,row(b) a carrier mixture comprising a water-soluble substance selected from a sugar and/or sugar alcohol and a separating agent at a weight ratio of 1 : 1 or higher, and optionallyrow(c) a surfactant.row    2. The composition of claim 1, wherein the powdered plant extract is birch leaf and/or a solidago leaf extract, the birch leaf extract optionally comprising at least 2 % flavonoids.row    3. The composition of claims 1 or 2, whereinrowthe sugar and/or sugar alcohol is selected from glucose, fructose, mannose, sucrose, maltose, lactose, maltitol, mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol, erythritol, isomalt, or mixtures thereof; and/orrowthe separating agent is selected from calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate, magnesium oxide, magnesium carbonate, fumaric acid, or mixtures thereof.row    4. The composition of any preceding claim, wherein the weight ratio of the sugar and/or sugar alcohol and the separating agent in the carrier mixture of the granules ranges from about 4 : 1 to about 11 : 1, or from about 5.5 : 1 to about 8.5 : 1.row    5. The composition of any preceding claim, whereinrowthe sugar and/or sugar alcohol is sucrose;rowthe separating agent is calcium carbonate; and/orrowthe surfactant is polysorbate, and optionally polysorbate 20.row    6. The composition of any preceding claim, wherein the granules compriserowfrom about 10 to about 70 wt.-% powdered plant extract;rowfrom about 20 to about 80 wt.-% sugar and/or sugar alcohol;rowfrom about 3 to about 20 wt.-% separating agent; and/orrowfrom about 0.01 to about 3 wt.-% surfactant.row    7. The composition of claim 6, wherein the granules compriserowfrom about 30 to about 50 wt.-% powdered plant extract;rowfrom about 40 to about 60 wt.-% sugar and/or sugar alcohol;rowfrom about 5 to about 10 wt.-% separating agent; and/orrowfrom about 0.05 to about 1 wt.-% surfactant.row    8. The composition of any preceding claim, further comprising mannose, optionally at an amount of about 10 to about 70 wt.-%.row    9. The composition of any preceding claim, further comprising a vitamin, wherein the vitamin is optionally vitamin A and/or vitamin D3.row    10. The composition of any preceding claim, further comprising one or more preferably extragranular excipients selected fromrowedible acids, optionally selected from citric acid, tartaric acid, succinic acid, malic acid or lactic acid, or combinations thereof;rowpH-modifying agents, optionally selected from citrates; sweeteners, optionally selected from aspartame, sucralose, cyclamate, neotame, neohesperidin, acesulfame potassium, saccharin, advantame, thaumatin, stevia or stevioside, or mixtures thereof;rownatural and/or artificial flavours; and/orrowanti-foaming agents, optionally selected from medium chain triglycerides (MCTs) with 6 to 12 carbon atoms or simethicone.row    11. The composition of any preceding claim, comprisingrowfrom about 30 to about 60 wt.-% mannose;rowfrom about 5 to about 20 wt.-% powdered birch leaf extract and/or powdered solidago leaf extract;rowfrom about 10 to about 30 wt.-% sucrose;rowfrom about 0.5 to about 3 wt.-% calcium carbonate;rowfrom about 5 to about 25 wt.-% citric acid;rowfrom about 3 to about 15 wt.-% trimagnesium dicitrate;rowfrom about 3 to about 15 wt.-% monosodium citrate; androwfrom about 0.001 to about 2 wt.-% surfactant.row    12. A process for the preparation of the dry flowable composition according to claims 1 to 11, comprising the steps ofrowa) mixing the sugar and/or sugar alcohol and the separating agent,rowb) adding a solution comprising an alcohol selected from ethanol or isopropanol, and optionally a surfactant, to the mixture of step a to form a carrier mixture,rowc) adding the powdered plant extract to the carrier mixture of step b, androwd) drying the product of step c, androwe) adding to the product of step d mannose and/or vitamin(s) and/or at least one extragranular excipient selected from edible acids, optionally selected from citric acid, tartaric acid, succinic acid, malic acid or lactic acid, or combinations thereof;rowpH-modifying agents, optionally selected from citrates;rowsweeteners, optionally selected from aspartame, sucralose, cyclamate, neotame, neohesperidin, acesulfame potassium, saccharin, advantame, thaumatin, stevia or stevioside, or mixtures thereof;rownatural and/or artificial flavours; and/orrowanti-foaming agents, optionally selected from medium chain triglycerides (MCTs) with 6 to 12 carbon atoms or simethicone.row    13. A single dose unit or package comprising the dry flowable composition according to claims 1 to 11, whereinrowthe amount of the total composition is from about 2000 to about 6000 mg, androwthe amount of granules in the composition is from about 800 to about 1200 mg,and/or wherein the amount of flavonoids is from about 5 to about 20 mg.row    14. An oral liquid composition obtained from dissolving or dispersing the dry flowable composition according to claims 1 to 11, or the single dose unit or package of claim 13 in water or an aqueous ingestible liquid.row    15. The dry flowable composition according to claims 1 to 11, the single dose unit or package of claim 13, or the oral liquid composition of claim 14 for use in the treatment and/or prevention of urinary tract infections.row                                                                                            


claims_tree: 



